osgi-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x OSGi examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x core in OSGi.

Vert.x core is packaged as an OSGi bundle that can be deployed in OSGi frameworks R4.2+. However, it requires Jackson and Netty to be deployed. Check the Vert.x core manual for further details.

== Vertx Activator

A `Bundle Activator` exposing the Vert.x instance and the event bus as OSGi service.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxActivator.java[Bundle Activator]

== Using Vert.x as a service

An http://ipojo.org[Apache Felix iPOJO] component consuming the `vertx` service to create a HTTP server.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxHttpServer.java[Vertx Http Server]

== Exposing Verticles as services

Verticles can be exposed as a service and consumed using a white-board pattern. Here is an example

* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxVerticleHost.java[The whiteboard pattern host]
* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxHttpClientVerticle.java[A verticle exposed as an OSGi service]

== Other examples

You can find another example of vert.x application in the OSGi context on http://paulbakker.io/osgi/vertx-osgi/
(the code is on https://github.com/paulbakker/osgi-vertx-demo).

Commit message:

Add OSGi example using the vert.x jdbc client.

osgi-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x OSGi examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x core in OSGi.

Vert.x core is packaged as an OSGi bundle that can be deployed in OSGi frameworks R4.2+. However, it requires Jackson and Netty to be deployed. Check the Vert.x core manual for further details.

== Vertx Activator

A `Bundle Activator` exposing the Vert.x instance and the event bus as OSGi service.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxActivator.java[Bundle Activator]

== Using Vert.x as a service

An http://ipojo.org[Apache Felix iPOJO] component consuming the `vertx` service to create a HTTP server.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxHttpServer.java[Vertx Http Server]

== Exposing Verticles as services

Verticles can be exposed as a service and consumed using a white-board pattern. Here is an example

* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxVerticleHost.java[The whiteboard pattern host]
* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/VertxHttpClientVerticle.java[A verticle exposed as an OSGi service]

== JDBC

An example using the vert.x JDBC client is available in link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/osgi/jdbc.
Notice that depending on the connection pool implementation, you may have to put the JDBC driver in your classpath.
This is the case if you use the default connection pool using C3P0.

Here is the list of the bundles to deploy this example:

```
    4|Active     |    1|Apache Felix iPOJO (1.12.1)|1.12.1
   14|Active     |    1|Jackson-annotations (2.6.0)|2.6.0
   15|Active     |    1|Jackson-core (2.6.1)|2.6.1
   16|Active     |    1|jackson-databind (2.6.1)|2.6.1
   17|Active     |    1|Netty/Buffer (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   18|Active     |    1|Netty/Codec (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   19|Active     |    1|Netty/Codec/HTTP (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   20|Active     |    1|Netty/Common (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   21|Active     |    1|Netty/Handler (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   22|Active     |    1|Netty/Transport (4.0.33.Final)|4.0.33.Final
   23|Active     |    1|Apache ServiceMix :: Bundles :: c3p0 (0.9.5.2_1)|0.9.5.2_1
   24|Active     |    1|osgi-examples (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT <--- this project
   25|Active     |    1|vertx-auth-common (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT
   26|Active     |    1|Vert.x Core (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT
   27|Active     |    1|vertx-jdbc-client (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT
   28|Active     |    1|vertx-sql-common (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT
   29|Active     |    1|vertx-web (3.3.0.SNAPSHOT)|3.3.0.SNAPSHOT
```

The HSQL JDBC driver is in the application classpath.

== Other examples

You can find another example of vert.x application in the OSGi context on http://paulbakker.io/osgi/vertx-osgi/
(the code is on https://github.com/paulbakker/osgi-vertx-demo).
