web-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x-Web examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x-Web in action.

Vert.x-Web is a tool-kit for writing web applications with Vert.x. Please consult the Vert.x-Web manual for detailed
documentation on Vert.x-Web.

== Logging

When running in an IDE you can edit `src/main/resources/vertx-default-jul-logging.properties` to configure logging.
Trace logging is enabled for Vert.x-Web classes so you can easily trace requests as they are routed through different
handlers.

== Dependencies required

To use Vert.x-Web in your own Maven or Gradle project you will need following dependencies

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-core
----

and

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-web
----

If you're using a template engine you will also need to add the engine dependency explicitly, depending on the engine
you are using.

== Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/helloworld/Server.java[Java Hello world example]

== Simple REST Micro-service

Vert.x-Web is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/rest/SimpleREST.java[Java REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

== Static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/templating/[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

== Sessions example

This example shows how to use sessions with Vert.x-Web. Sessions are available between requests and last the length of the
browser session.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/sessions/[Java sessions example]

The example increments a counter in the session every time a request hits the server.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 then refresh the page a few times - you should see the hit count increase.

NOTE: Depending on your browser you may see it increase by two each time you refresh! Why is that? Some browsers will
actually send two HTTP requests every time you refresh - one to request the favicon for the site and one to request the
actual page.

== Real-time - client side event bus

This example demonstrates a full duplex connection between the browser and the server side.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/[Java real-time example]

The connection remains open so you can communicate easily between server and browser or server and browser by just sending
messages over the event bus, like you would on the server side.

It uses the SockJS event bus bridge to effectively extend the Vert.x event bus to the client side so you can
interact with server side event bus services from client side JavaScript. SocksJS gives a WebSocket-like API in client side
JavaScript even if the browser or network doesn't support WebSockets.

This is ideal for so-called _real-time_ web applications where you want quick, responsive communication between server
and client and you're probably rendering the user interface on the client side.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080

This serves the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/webroot/index.html[index page] which contains
some JavaScript which opens an event bus connection to the server.

When the connection is open, a handler is registered on the event bus against the address `news-feed`. When data
arrives in the handler the script just uses some simple JQuery to write the message to the page.

On the server side, in the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/Server.java[server] we set a periodic
timer that fires every second and sends a message to the `news-feed` address.

When you get the index page in your browser you should see it update every second as it receives a message.

== Real-time - chat service

This example demonstrates 2-way communication between the client and the server using the event bus bridge
and web sockets. 

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/chat/Server.java[Java real-time chat example]

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/chat/webroot/index.html[index.html] file
bootstraps the vertxbus.js bridge from the client and uses jQuery to handle manipulating
the DOM and registering event handlers.

When you load the index page in a browser, you should see a div for chat messages and 
an input field where you can enter your own messages. Typing in the input field and 
pressing ENTER will cause the input to be sent via the event bus to the server. The server
will accept the message, prepend it with a timestamp and publish back to all registered 
listeners (e.g. All connected clients). Take note of the addInboundPermitted and addOutboundPermitted
settings on the BridgeOptions object to be sure that you authorize the correct messages
to traverse the event bus bridge in the appropriate direction.

To run the example, run `Server.java` in your IDE by right clicking, or at the command line, and point your browser
at link:http://localhost:8080

== Auth example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/auth/[Java auth example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The example uses a simple auth service which gets user/password/role information from a properties file
`src/main/resources/vertx-users.properties`.

The type of login used here is redirect login. If a request is made to a private resource and the session isn't already
logged in a redirect will be sent to the browser causing it to load the login page. When the login form is submitted it
is handled by the form login handler which then redirects the browser back to the originally requested resource if login
was successful.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Cookie example

This example shows a basic user Tracking system based on Cookies. On each page refresh a cookie is incremented with the
number of visits.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/cookie/[Java cookie example]

== MongoDB example

This example shows a simple single page application that interfaces with a mongo db collection and allows the user to
do basic operations such as:

* create new documents
* read existing documents
* delete documents.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/mongo/[Java mongo example]

The single page application HTML is also dynamic and generated using JADE template language showcasing inheritance of
templates.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links.

== CORS example

This example shows how to setup the CORS Handler. Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that allows
restricted resources (e.g. fonts, JavaScript, etc.) on a web page to be requested from another domain outside the domain
from which the resource originated.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/cors/[Java cors example]

CORS requests fall in two types, request that require a pre-flight check and requests that do not require it. HTTP GET
does not require such a check while other HTTP verbs do. When the CORS handler is active the `Origin` header is checked
to allow, disallow the request.

In order to run the example, you need to download the 2 example HTML pages and run them from your hard disk. If you are
using a modern browser when clicking on the links they will pop up the download pop-up, however this might not work for
older browsers.

If the CORS Handler is not present, then only the no preflight check call will work, since the browser will disallow the
POST.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Upload example

This example shows a basic HTML form file upload and returns the upload metadata.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/upload/[Java upload example]

The home request will return a HTML form with a simple input type file and will upload the file in multipart encoding.
On submit the file will be handled by the `BodyHandler` and be available in the `RoutingContext` using the getter
`fileUploads`.

== HTML Form example

This example shows a basic HTML form web-site and a backend end point that just returns an customizable hello world
message.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/form/[Java form example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== JWT example

This example shows a basic single page application that contains an API that is protected by a JWT.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/jwt/[Java jwt example]

Requests to paths starting with `/api/` will require a JWT token, except the excluded `/api/newToken`. This exclusion is
normaly used as the login end point, however in this example we are not focusing on secure login end points and we just
return a new token for any request.

The application contains a simple form where you can request some data from the API if there is no token loaded then the
response is an `HTTP error 401`. When a token is loaded, then a successful response if received from the API.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Angular example

This example shows a basic single page application built with Angular JS. It is quite similar to the REST example, the
only difference is that it also serves an angular app.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/angular/[Java angular example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Blocking handler example

This example shows a blocking handler which blocks the calling thread for 5 seconds before calling the next handler
to serve the page.

Blocking handlers are run on a worker thread and don't block an event loop.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 - after 5 seconds the response should arrive.

== Static web server example

This example shows a very simple web server which serves static files from disk.

The server can be run either in your IDE with the main class or at the command line. If you run it with redeploy enabled
(that means at the command line `vertx run Server.java -redeploy`, then the verticle will automatically redeploy
if any of the resources change.

You can test this by editing the Server.java then recompiling it without restarting the server - the verticle should
automatically reload.

== JDBC example

This example shows a basic REST server backed by a JDBC client. It is exactly the same as the REST client however its
data is persisted in a relational database using the asynchronous JDBC client.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/auth/[Java jdbc example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products to get the list of products, or link:http://localhost:8080/products/0 for accessing
a product with id 0. In order to create new products use the POST method to link:http://localhost:8080/products

== Auth JDBC example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user. This is a remake of the auth example, however using a different auth provider. In this case it
uses the JDBC Auth Provider.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/authjdbc/[Java authjdbc example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The username/password are loaded from the `setUpInitialData` method.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Angular realtime example

This example shows a music store implemented with angular js, where all album data and orders are taken in realtime.

It also demonstrates how to protect the even bus when used with a bridge using one `Auth Provider`.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/angular_realtime/[Java angular_realtime example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Programmatic Auth example

This example shows how to use the Auth Handlers to protect resources by asserting if the user has the right authorities
to access the resource.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/custom_auth/[Java custom_auth example]

The example shows 4 resource that require different authorities:

* (none) link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected
* defcon1 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon1
* defcon2 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon2
* defcon3 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon3

You can generate different tokens with different authorities and test it. The example html does not generate defcon3
tokens, in order to show that you cannot access the last resource.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

Commit message:

added a second example showing how to implement authorisation in code

web-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x-Web examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x-Web in action.

Vert.x-Web is a tool-kit for writing web applications with Vert.x. Please consult the Vert.x-Web manual for detailed
documentation on Vert.x-Web.

== Logging

When running in an IDE you can edit `src/main/resources/vertx-default-jul-logging.properties` to configure logging.
Trace logging is enabled for Vert.x-Web classes so you can easily trace requests as they are routed through different
handlers.

== Dependencies required

To use Vert.x-Web in your own Maven or Gradle project you will need following dependencies

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-core
----

and

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-web
----

If you're using a template engine you will also need to add the engine dependency explicitly, depending on the engine
you are using.

== Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/helloworld/Server.java[Java Hello world example]

== Simple REST Micro-service

Vert.x-Web is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/rest/SimpleREST.java[Java REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

== Static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/templating/[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

== Sessions example

This example shows how to use sessions with Vert.x-Web. Sessions are available between requests and last the length of the
browser session.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/sessions/[Java sessions example]

The example increments a counter in the session every time a request hits the server.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 then refresh the page a few times - you should see the hit count increase.

NOTE: Depending on your browser you may see it increase by two each time you refresh! Why is that? Some browsers will
actually send two HTTP requests every time you refresh - one to request the favicon for the site and one to request the
actual page.

== Real-time - client side event bus

This example demonstrates a full duplex connection between the browser and the server side.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/[Java real-time example]

The connection remains open so you can communicate easily between server and browser or server and browser by just sending
messages over the event bus, like you would on the server side.

It uses the SockJS event bus bridge to effectively extend the Vert.x event bus to the client side so you can
interact with server side event bus services from client side JavaScript. SocksJS gives a WebSocket-like API in client side
JavaScript even if the browser or network doesn't support WebSockets.

This is ideal for so-called _real-time_ web applications where you want quick, responsive communication between server
and client and you're probably rendering the user interface on the client side.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080

This serves the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/webroot/index.html[index page] which contains
some JavaScript which opens an event bus connection to the server.

When the connection is open, a handler is registered on the event bus against the address `news-feed`. When data
arrives in the handler the script just uses some simple JQuery to write the message to the page.

On the server side, in the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/realtime/Server.java[server] we set a periodic
timer that fires every second and sends a message to the `news-feed` address.

When you get the index page in your browser you should see it update every second as it receives a message.

== Real-time - chat service

This example demonstrates 2-way communication between the client and the server using the event bus bridge
and web sockets. 

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/chat/Server.java[Java real-time chat example]

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/chat/webroot/index.html[index.html] file
bootstraps the vertxbus.js bridge from the client and uses jQuery to handle manipulating
the DOM and registering event handlers.

When you load the index page in a browser, you should see a div for chat messages and 
an input field where you can enter your own messages. Typing in the input field and 
pressing ENTER will cause the input to be sent via the event bus to the server. The server
will accept the message, prepend it with a timestamp and publish back to all registered 
listeners (e.g. All connected clients). Take note of the addInboundPermitted and addOutboundPermitted
settings on the BridgeOptions object to be sure that you authorize the correct messages
to traverse the event bus bridge in the appropriate direction.

To run the example, run `Server.java` in your IDE by right clicking, or at the command line, and point your browser
at link:http://localhost:8080

== Auth example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/auth/[Java auth example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The example uses a simple auth service which gets user/password/role information from a properties file
`src/main/resources/vertx-users.properties`.

The type of login used here is redirect login. If a request is made to a private resource and the session isn't already
logged in a redirect will be sent to the browser causing it to load the login page. When the login form is submitted it
is handled by the form login handler which then redirects the browser back to the originally requested resource if login
was successful.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Cookie example

This example shows a basic user Tracking system based on Cookies. On each page refresh a cookie is incremented with the
number of visits.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/cookie/[Java cookie example]

== MongoDB example

This example shows a simple single page application that interfaces with a mongo db collection and allows the user to
do basic operations such as:

* create new documents
* read existing documents
* delete documents.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/mongo/[Java mongo example]

The single page application HTML is also dynamic and generated using JADE template language showcasing inheritance of
templates.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links.

== CORS example

This example shows how to setup the CORS Handler. Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that allows
restricted resources (e.g. fonts, JavaScript, etc.) on a web page to be requested from another domain outside the domain
from which the resource originated.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/cors/[Java cors example]

CORS requests fall in two types, request that require a pre-flight check and requests that do not require it. HTTP GET
does not require such a check while other HTTP verbs do. When the CORS handler is active the `Origin` header is checked
to allow, disallow the request.

In order to run the example, you need to download the 2 example HTML pages and run them from your hard disk. If you are
using a modern browser when clicking on the links they will pop up the download pop-up, however this might not work for
older browsers.

If the CORS Handler is not present, then only the no preflight check call will work, since the browser will disallow the
POST.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Upload example

This example shows a basic HTML form file upload and returns the upload metadata.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/upload/[Java upload example]

The home request will return a HTML form with a simple input type file and will upload the file in multipart encoding.
On submit the file will be handled by the `BodyHandler` and be available in the `RoutingContext` using the getter
`fileUploads`.

== HTML Form example

This example shows a basic HTML form web-site and a backend end point that just returns an customizable hello world
message.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/form/[Java form example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== JWT example

This example shows a basic single page application that contains an API that is protected by a JWT.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/jwt/[Java jwt example]

Requests to paths starting with `/api/` will require a JWT token, except the excluded `/api/newToken`. This exclusion is
normaly used as the login end point, however in this example we are not focusing on secure login end points and we just
return a new token for any request.

The application contains a simple form where you can request some data from the API if there is no token loaded then the
response is an `HTTP error 401`. When a token is loaded, then a successful response if received from the API.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Angular example

This example shows a basic single page application built with Angular JS. It is quite similar to the REST example, the
only difference is that it also serves an angular app.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/angular/[Java angular example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Blocking handler example

This example shows a blocking handler which blocks the calling thread for 5 seconds before calling the next handler
to serve the page.

Blocking handlers are run on a worker thread and don't block an event loop.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 - after 5 seconds the response should arrive.

== Static web server example

This example shows a very simple web server which serves static files from disk.

The server can be run either in your IDE with the main class or at the command line. If you run it with redeploy enabled
(that means at the command line `vertx run Server.java -redeploy`, then the verticle will automatically redeploy
if any of the resources change.

You can test this by editing the Server.java then recompiling it without restarting the server - the verticle should
automatically reload.

== JDBC example

This example shows a basic REST server backed by a JDBC client. It is exactly the same as the REST client however its
data is persisted in a relational database using the asynchronous JDBC client.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/auth/[Java jdbc example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products to get the list of products, or link:http://localhost:8080/products/0 for accessing
a product with id 0. In order to create new products use the POST method to link:http://localhost:8080/products

== Auth JDBC example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user. This is a remake of the auth example, however using a different auth provider. In this case it
uses the JDBC Auth Provider.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/authjdbc/[Java authjdbc example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The username/password are loaded from the `setUpInitialData` method.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Angular realtime example

This example shows a music store implemented with angular js, where all album data and orders are taken in realtime.

It also demonstrates how to protect the even bus when used with a bridge using one `Auth Provider`.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/angular_realtime/[Java angular_realtime example]

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

== Programmatic Authentication examples

This examples shows how to use the Auth Handlers to protect resources by asserting if the user has the right authorities
to access the resource.

There are 2 implementations, one using the API to verify assertions, and a second where assertions are implemented in
code:

* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/authorisation/[Java authorisation example]
* link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/web/custom_authorisation/[Java custom_authorisation example]

The example shows 4 resource that require different authorities:

* (none) link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected
* defcon1 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon1
* defcon2 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon2
* defcon3 link:http://localhost:8080/api/protected/defcon3

You can generate different tokens with different authorities and test it. The example html does not generate defcon3
tokens, in order to show that you cannot access the last resource.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links
