rx-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x RxJava extension examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x RxJava extension in action.

Vert.x RxJava extension provides Rxified version of the Vert.x APIs. Please consult the Vert.x RxJava manual
for detailed documentation on Vert.x core.

== RxJava Http examples

These examples shows the Rxified HTTP api.

=== Simple

A simple http server and client.

The server uses an `Observable<HttpServerRequest>` to serve request:

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/simple/Server.java[RxJava simple HTTP server]

The client uses an `Observable<HttpClientRequest` and applies `flatMap` to get a `Observable<Buffer>`

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/simple/Client.java[RxJava simple HTTP client]

=== Reduce

Same as _simple_ example however the client applies several operations on this observable to end
with the http client response:

* `flatMap` transforms the `Observable<HttpClientResponse>` -> `Observable<Buffer>`
* `reduce` merge all response buffers in a single buffer
* `map` transform the buffer to a string
* `subscribe` delivers the response content

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/reduce/Client.java[RxJava reduce HTTP client]

=== Zip

A variation of the _simple_ example with two client requests mapped to an `Observable<JsonObject>`
 and then _zipped_ in a single json object.

The main interest is to get the final result when the two responses are delivered.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/zip/Client.java[RxJava zip HTTP client]

=== Unmarshalling

The http client json response is unmarshalled to a Java object: the `RxHelper.unmarshaller` static method
 creates an Rx operator applied to the response via the `lift`.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/unmarshalling/Client.java[RxJava unmarshalling HTTP client]

== RxJava event bus examples

The event bus provides a natural fit with the Rx api.

=== Publish / Subscribe

A reinterpreation of the core publish / subscribe example with the subscriber using the Rx api.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/pubsub/Receiver.java[RxJava event bus pubsub receiver]
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/pubsub/Sender.java[RxJava event bus pubsub sender]

=== Zip replies

The example Sender sends two messages over the event bus and wait for replies, the
_zip_ operation is applied to deliver a single reply when the two replies are received.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/zipreplies/Receiver.java[RxJava zipreplies eventbus receiver]
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/zipreplies/Sender.java[RxJava zipreplies eventbus sender]

== RxJava Database examples

=== Jdbc example

An example showing the Jdbc Service Rxified api, after the client connected to the database, it chains
operations via the `flatMap` operation and then subscribes to the result.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/database/jdbc/Client.java[RxJava jdbc client]

=== Mongo example

An example showing the Mongo Service Rxified api, after the client connected to Mongo, it chains
`createCollection` and `insert` via _flatMap_ and then subscribes to the result to do a query
in the _onComplete_.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/database/mongo/Client.java[RxJava Mongo client]

== Scheduler examples

Vertx for RxJava provides schedulers for performing delayed, periodic actions.

=== Periodic events

RxJava timer can use Vertx scheduler for scheduling actions on the event loop, this example shows a 1 second
periodic observable scheduled on Vertx event loop.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/scheduler/timer/Periodic.java[Periodic scheduled action]

=== Blocking action example

When an Observable operation is blocking, a blocking Vertx scheduler can be used to perform the action, this
examples shows how blocking operation can be scheduled on Vert.x

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/scheduler/blocking/Scheduled.java[Blocking scheduled action]

Commit message:

Add example of rx send and reply.
Fix sender example to use rx

Signed-off-by: John Oliver <johno@insightfullogic.com>

rx-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x RxJava extension examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x RxJava extension in action.

Vert.x RxJava extension provides Rxified version of the Vert.x APIs. Please consult the Vert.x RxJava manual
for detailed documentation on Vert.x core.

== RxJava Http examples

These examples shows the Rxified HTTP api.

=== Simple

A simple http server and client.

The server uses an `Observable<HttpServerRequest>` to serve request:

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/simple/Server.java[RxJava simple HTTP server]

The client uses an `Observable<HttpClientRequest` and applies `flatMap` to get a `Observable<Buffer>`

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/simple/Client.java[RxJava simple HTTP client]

=== Reduce

Same as _simple_ example however the client applies several operations on this observable to end
with the http client response:

* `flatMap` transforms the `Observable<HttpClientResponse>` -> `Observable<Buffer>`
* `reduce` merge all response buffers in a single buffer
* `map` transform the buffer to a string
* `subscribe` delivers the response content

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/reduce/Client.java[RxJava reduce HTTP client]

=== Zip

A variation of the _simple_ example with two client requests mapped to an `Observable<JsonObject>`
 and then _zipped_ in a single json object.

The main interest is to get the final result when the two responses are delivered.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/zip/Client.java[RxJava zip HTTP client]

=== Unmarshalling

The http client json response is unmarshalled to a Java object: the `RxHelper.unmarshaller` static method
 creates an Rx operator applied to the response via the `lift`.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/http/unmarshalling/Client.java[RxJava unmarshalling HTTP client]

== RxJava event bus examples

The event bus provides a natural fit with the Rx api.

=== Publish / Subscribe

A reinterpreation of the core publish / subscribe example with the subscriber using the Rx api.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/pubsub/Receiver.java[RxJava event bus pubsub receiver]
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/pubsub/Sender.java[RxJava event bus pubsub sender]

=== Ping / Pong

An example of sending, receiving and replying to messages using the Rx api.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/pingpong/PingPong.java[RxJava simple ping-pong ]

=== Zip replies

The example Sender sends two messages over the event bus and wait for replies, the
_zip_ operation is applied to deliver a single reply when the two replies are received.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/zipreplies/Receiver.java[RxJava zipreplies eventbus receiver]
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/eventbus/zipreplies/Sender.java[RxJava zipreplies eventbus sender]

== RxJava Database examples

=== Jdbc example

An example showing the Jdbc Service Rxified api, after the client connected to the database, it chains
operations via the `flatMap` operation and then subscribes to the result.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/database/jdbc/Client.java[RxJava jdbc client]

=== Mongo example

An example showing the Mongo Service Rxified api, after the client connected to Mongo, it chains
`createCollection` and `insert` via _flatMap_ and then subscribes to the result to do a query
in the _onComplete_.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/database/mongo/Client.java[RxJava Mongo client]

== Scheduler examples

Vertx for RxJava provides schedulers for performing delayed, periodic actions.

=== Periodic events

RxJava timer can use Vertx scheduler for scheduling actions on the event loop, this example shows a 1 second
periodic observable scheduled on Vertx event loop.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/scheduler/timer/Periodic.java[Periodic scheduled action]

=== Blocking action example

When an Observable operation is blocking, a blocking Vertx scheduler can be used to perform the action, this
examples shows how blocking operation can be scheduled on Vert.x

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/rxjava/scheduler/blocking/Scheduled.java[Blocking scheduled action]
