sync-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x-sync examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x-Sync in action.

Vertx-sync allows you to deploy verticles that run using *Fibers*. Fibers are very lightweight threads that can be
blocked without blocking a kernel thread.

This enables you to write your verticle code in a familiar synchronous style (i.e. no callbacks or promises or Rx).

As no kernel threads are blocked your application retains the scalability advantages of a non (kernel thread) blocking
application.

In order to run the sync examples in your IDE you must add the following JVM option in your IDE run configuration:

----
-javaagent:/path/to/the/quasar/jar/
----

e.g.

----
-javaagent:/home/tim/.m2/repository/co/paralleluniverse/quasar-core/0.7.2/quasar-core-0.7.2.jar
----

== eventbus

=== combine

This example demonstrates using `HandlerReceiverAdaptor` to take two asynchronous stream of events and combining them by
using the underlying Quasar channel.

It creates adaptors for two different event bus messages consumers on different addresses.

A periodic timer is created that sends a message to both addresses every 500ms.

It then gets the Quasar `ReceivePort` for each adaptor and combines them into a `Mix`.

The first ten messages are then received from the mix, synchronously.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

=== consume

This example demonstrates using `HandlerReceiverAdaptor` to take two asynchronous stream of events and allow them to
be received in a synchronous way.

It creates adaptors for two different event bus messages consumers on different addresses.

A periodic timer is created that sends a message to both addresses every 500ms.

The first ten messages are then received from each adaptor, synchronously.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

=== pingpong

This examples demonstrates using `awaitResult` to get send event bus messages and get the reply back, synchronously.

The example sets up an event bus consumer which just replies "pong" to every messages it receives.

The example then loops 10 times sending a message and getting a reply. It also demonstrates using `Strand.sleep` which
is like `Thread.sleep` but blocks the fiber, not the kernel thread.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== fiberhandler

This example demonstrates using a `FiberHandler` to run a standard handler using a Fiber.

In this case the standard handler is an `HttpServer` request handler which sends an event bus message and gets a reply
back synchronously after one second before ending the response.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

Then open a browser and point it at `localhost:8080`.

== singleevent

This example demonstrates using `awaitEvent` to get a single event synchronously.

It creates a timer which fires after one second. The fiber blocks until the event is available.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== jdbc

This example demonstrates using `awaitResult` to interact with the Vert.x JDBC client in a synchronous way.

The example creates a client, gets a connection, creates a table, inserts some rows then selects the rows back before
displaying them and closing the connection.

Compare the complexity of this example with the equivalent
link:/jdbc-examples/src/main/java/io/vertx/example/jdbc/simple/JDBCExample.java[asynchronous example]

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== mongo

This example demonstrates using `awaitResult` to interact with the Vert.x Mongo client in a synchronous way.

The example first deploys an in-memory Mongo DB instance, then creates a client, creates a collection, inserts some
documents, then finds the documents.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

Commit message:

Add ahead of time profile to run the example without the agent.

sync-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x-sync examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x-Sync in action.

Vertx-sync allows you to deploy verticles that run using *Fibers*. Fibers are very lightweight threads that can be
blocked without blocking a kernel thread.

This enables you to write your verticle code in a familiar synchronous style (i.e. no callbacks or promises or Rx).

As no kernel threads are blocked your application retains the scalability advantages of a non (kernel thread) blocking
application.


The examples can be run using the:

* Quasar Agent
* Ahead Of Time instrumentation (aot)

If you use the Quasar agent, in your IDE you must add the following JVM option in your IDE run configuration:

----
-javaagent:/path/to/the/quasar/jar/
----

e.g.

----
-javaagent:/home/tim/.m2/repository/co/paralleluniverse/quasar-core/0.7.2/quasar-core-0.7.2.jar
----

The ahead of time instrumentation does not require the agent configuration, however you need to build this example
using:

----
mvn clean package -Paot
----

You will also need to configure your IDE to not replace the classes generated in `target/classes` and use them. In
IntelliJ, for instance, remove the _Before launch_ `make` action.

== eventbus

=== combine

This example demonstrates using `HandlerReceiverAdaptor` to take two asynchronous stream of events and combining them by
using the underlying Quasar channel.

It creates adaptors for two different event bus messages consumers on different addresses.

A periodic timer is created that sends a message to both addresses every 500ms.

It then gets the Quasar `ReceivePort` for each adaptor and combines them into a `Mix`.

The first ten messages are then received from the mix, synchronously.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

=== consume

This example demonstrates using `HandlerReceiverAdaptor` to take two asynchronous stream of events and allow them to
be received in a synchronous way.

It creates adaptors for two different event bus messages consumers on different addresses.

A periodic timer is created that sends a message to both addresses every 500ms.

The first ten messages are then received from each adaptor, synchronously.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

=== pingpong

This examples demonstrates using `awaitResult` to get send event bus messages and get the reply back, synchronously.

The example sets up an event bus consumer which just replies "pong" to every messages it receives.

The example then loops 10 times sending a message and getting a reply. It also demonstrates using `Strand.sleep` which
is like `Thread.sleep` but blocks the fiber, not the kernel thread.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== fiberhandler

This example demonstrates using a `FiberHandler` to run a standard handler using a Fiber.

In this case the standard handler is an `HttpServer` request handler which sends an event bus message and gets a reply
back synchronously after one second before ending the response.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

Then open a browser and point it at `localhost:8080`.

== singleevent

This example demonstrates using `awaitEvent` to get a single event synchronously.

It creates a timer which fires after one second. The fiber blocks until the event is available.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== jdbc

This example demonstrates using `awaitResult` to interact with the Vert.x JDBC client in a synchronous way.

The example creates a client, gets a connection, creates a table, inserts some rows then selects the rows back before
displaying them and closing the connection.

Compare the complexity of this example with the equivalent
link:/jdbc-examples/src/main/java/io/vertx/example/jdbc/simple/JDBCExample.java[asynchronous example]

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.

== mongo

This example demonstrates using `awaitResult` to interact with the Vert.x Mongo client in a synchronous way.

The example first deploys an in-memory Mongo DB instance, then creates a client, creates a collection, inserts some
documents, then finds the documents.

You can run the example in your IDE with the provided `main` method.
