mail-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x Mail examples

Here you'll find some examples how to use Vert.x mail-service to send mails
to a SMTP server either from the local machine or via the event bus on another
machine.

The examples use a few different configs

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailLocalhost.java[MailLocalhost]

Send a mail to `localhost:25`, e.g. to postfix running on the local machine

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailLogin.java[MailLogin]

Send a mail to an external smtp server (e.g. googlemail, sendgrid, aol etc)
requiring a login and enforcing use of TLS. The operation will fail if either
the account is not set or the server doesn't announce STARTTLS capability.

The login will currently use DIGEST-MD5, CRAM-MD5, PLAIN and LOGIN in order of
preference, if the server announces AUTH but you don't need it (e.g. if you are
authenticated by a local ip address) turn login off with `LoginOption.DISABLE`
To specifically select a AUTH method or define the order of preference, you
can do `setAuthMethods("METHOD1 METHOD2")`.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailEB.java[MailEB]

Send a mail via the event bus to another vert.x instance registered as
vertx.mail. This will use the config set by the service and doesn't use a local
config object.

This example shows how to leave out the From address in a mail but setting
the bounceAddress property instead.

The service listening on the event bus can be started with

    vertx run service:io.vertx.mail-service

and vertx will pick up the package from maven and start it with default config.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailHeaders.java[MailHeaders]

Send a mail with supplied headers (e.g. Received, Message-ID, Reply-To)

This test uses a SSL connect to the mail server using Port 465 (which is
actually deprecated, but is supported by many mail servers e.g. googlemail
and AOL support port 465). The preferred way to send secure mails is TLS
required and port 587.

Commit message:

Refactor the mailsexamples to be more easily runnable and testable.

mail-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x Mail examples

Here you'll find some examples how to use Vert.x mail-service to send mails
to a SMTP server either from the local machine or via the event bus on another
machine.


By default these example starts a "fake" mails server (just logging on the console):

[source]
----
LocalSmtpServer.start(2526);
----

If you want to use a different SMTP server, just remove this line and configure the options.

The examples use a few different configs

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailLocalhost.java[MailLocalhost]

Just send a mail without authentication.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailLogin.java[MailLogin]

Send a mail to an external smtp server (e.g. googlemail, sendgrid, aol etc)
requiring a login.

The login will currently use DIGEST-MD5, CRAM-MD5, PLAIN and LOGIN in order of
preference, if the server announces AUTH but you don't need it (e.g. if you are
authenticated by a local ip address) turn login off with `LoginOption.DISABLE`
To specifically select a AUTH method or define the order of preference, you
can do `setAuthMethods("METHOD1 METHOD2")`.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailServiceExample.java[MailServiceExample]

Send a mail via the event bus to another vert.x instance registered as
`vertx.mail`. This will use the config set by the service and doesn't use a local
config object.

This example shows how to leave out the From address in a mail but setting
the bounceAddress property instead.

the example deploys the mail service, however you can refactor the example to skip this step and start the service as
 follows:

----
vertx run service:io.vertx.mail-service
----

and vertx will pick up the package from maven and start it with default config.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailHeaders.java[MailHeaders]

Send a mail with supplied headers (e.g. Received, Message-ID, Reply-To)

This example shows how you can send headers in a mail.

== link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/mail/MailImages.java[MailImages]

This example shows how to send inlined images in mails.
