amqp-proton-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x Proton examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating the Vert.x Proton AMQP library in action.

This component facilitates AMQP integrations for Vert.x by providing a thin wrapper around the [Apache Qpid](http://qpid.apache.org) Proton-J AMQP 1.0 protocol engine.
Please consult the Vert.x Proton documentation for more information.

**NOTE: The Client examples require a server with AMQP 1.0 support listening at port 5672 on localhost and offering SASL ANONYMOUS.**

For instance, you could use a server such as Apache ActiveMQ (5.x or Artemis), Apache Qpid (Dispatch router, Broker-J or C++ broker), or the Vert.x Proton server example.

== Client

These examples demonstrate messaging between a client sender, client receiver, and a server. They can be used in conjunction with each other to send and receive messages.

The Receiver example consumes incoming messages from an address, prints their content, and accepts them. The Sender example sends a message to that address every second.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/Receiver.java[Receiver] +
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/Sender.java[Sender] +

== Server

This server example listens for incoming connections on port 5672. It prints any messages received from client senders, and periodically sends generated messages to client receivers.
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/server/HelloServer.java[HelloServer] +

Commit message:

add examples of using the close+disconnect handlers to aid reconnection

amqp-proton-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x Proton examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating the Vert.x Proton AMQP library in action.

This component facilitates AMQP integrations for Vert.x by providing a thin wrapper around the [Apache Qpid](http://qpid.apache.org) Proton-J AMQP 1.0 protocol engine.
Please consult the Vert.x Proton documentation for more information.

**NOTE: The Client examples require a server with AMQP 1.0 support listening at port 5672 on localhost and offering SASL ANONYMOUS.**

For instance, you could use a server such as Apache ActiveMQ (5.x or Artemis), Apache Qpid (Dispatch router, Broker-J or C++ broker), or the Vert.x Proton server example.

== Client

These examples demonstrate messaging between a client sender, client receiver, and a server. They can be used in conjunction with each other to send and receive messages.

The Receiver example consumes incoming messages from an address, prints their content, and accepts them. The Sender example sends a message to that address every second.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/Receiver.java[Receiver] +
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/Sender.java[Sender] +

The ReconnectReceiver example furthers the above to reconnects on connection closure or disconnect. The ReconnectSender similarly reconnects, until it confirms sending a set number of messages. They each try connecting to localhost:5672 and also localhost:15672.

link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/ReconnectReceiver.java[ReconnectReceiver] +
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/client/ReconnectSender.java[ReconnectSender] +


== Server

This server example listens for incoming connections on port 5672. It prints any messages received from client senders, and periodically sends generated messages to client receivers.
link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/proton/server/HelloServer.java[HelloServer] +
