ceylon/README.adoc, before:

== Vert.x Ceylon examples

or Ceylon Vert.x examples - as you like.

=== Vert.x Stack

This current stack of modules is supported:

- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/core/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Core]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/sql/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x SQL]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/jdbc/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x JDBC]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/web/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Web]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/common/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth Common]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/jwt/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth JWT]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/shiro/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth Shiro]

For more info please refer to http://vertx.io/docs/

=== Usage from Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.simple.server
Note: Created module examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0

> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0
deployed
----

The module is deployed from the Ceylon run using Vert.x API

----
shared void run() {  
    vertx.vertx().deployVerticle("ceylon:examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0", void (String|Throwable ar) {
    if (is String ar) {
      print("deployed");
    } else {
      ar.printStackTrace();
    }
  });
}
----

=== Usage from Vert.x

Download Vert.x from http://vertx.io/download, add $VERTX_HOME/bin to your path.

Run a Ceylon Verticle from Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/server
----

Vert.x will compile first the Ceylon verticle.

When the verticle is already compiled (i.e there is a `modules/examples/core/http/simple/server/1.0.0/examples.core.http.simple.server-1.0.0.car` file), it can be ran too:

----
> vertx run ceylon:examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0
----

Some examples requires the _webroot_ folder, like the _web/staticsite_ example or the template examples, the `vertx.cwd` must be set to the parent of the _webroot`, for example:

=== Core Simple Http

A very simple HTTP server which always responds with the same response:

link:source/examples/core/http/simple/server/Server.ceylon[Ceylon simple HTTP server]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

And a simple HTTP client which makes a request to the server.

link:source/examples/core/http/simple/client/Client.ceylon[Ceylon simple HTTP client]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/server &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/client
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.server
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.client
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.server &
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.client
----

=== Core Http simple form upload

This example demonstrates how you can handle file uploads from an HTML form submission.

link:source/examples/core/http/simpleformupload/SimpleFormUploadServer.ceylon[Ceylon simple form file upload server example]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

NOTE: In practice you would probably also use Vert.x-Web for this rather than writing a server at this low level. Vert.x-Web
provides built in support for HTML forms and file uploads, and avoids some of the security issues due to maliciously
crafted URI paths.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simpleformupload
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.simpleformupload
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.simpleformupload
----

=== Core Websockets

This example shows a Vert.x HTTP server which handles websockets connections. This example simply echoes back to the client
whatever it receives on the websocket.

There's also a client which connects to the server, sends some data and logs out what it receives.

link:source/examples/core/http/websockets/server/Server.ceylon[Ceylon WebSockets server example]
link:source/examples/core/http/websockets/client/Client.ceylon[Ceylon WebSockets client example]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

NOTE: in practice you would probably use Vert.x-Web to build a web application that uses WebSockets

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/websockets/server &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/websockets/client
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.websockets.server
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.websockets.client
> ceylon run examples.core.http.websockets.server &
> ceylon run examples.core.http.websockets.client
----

=== Core exec blocking

This example demonstrates how you can include blocking code in with your non blocking code in a way that doesn't
block an event loop:

link:source/examples/core/execblocking/ExecBlocking.ceylon[Ceylon execute blocking code example]

Run the example then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/execblocking
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.execblocking
> ceylon run examples.core.http.execblocking
----

=== Core event bus pub/sub

This example demonstrates publish / subscribe messaging between a receivers and a sender. With pub/sub messaging
you can have multiple subscribers who all receive messages from publishers.

A receiver listens on an address on the event bus for incoming messages. When it receives a message it logs it.

The sender sends a message to that address every second, when it receives a reply it logs it.

link:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/receiver/Receiver.ceylon[Ceylon event bus pubsub receiver]
link:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/sender/Sender.ceylon[Ceylon event bus pubsub sender]

At the command line you should run Sender and Receiver in different consoles using the `-cluster` flag:

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/receiver -cluster &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/sender -cluster
----

The `-cluster` flag allows different Vert.x instances on the network to cluster the event bus together into a single
event bus.

=== Web Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:source/examples/web/helloworld/Server.ceylon[Ceylon Hello world example]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/helloworld
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.helloworld
> ceylon run examples.web.helloworld
----

=== Web Rest

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/rest
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.rest
> ceylon run examples.web.rest
----

=== Web Simple REST Micro-service

Vert.x-Web is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:source/examples/web/rest/SimpleREST.ceylon[Ceylon REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/rest
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.rest
> ceylon run examples.web.rest
----

=== Web Static web server example

This example shows a very simple web server which serves static files from disk.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/staticsite -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/staticsite
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.staticsite
> ceylon run examples.web.staticsite
----

=== Web Form

This example shows a basic HTML form web-site and a backend end point that just returns an customizable hello world
message.

The link:source/examples/web/form/Server.ceylon[Ceylon form example]

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/form
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.form
> ceylon run examples.web.form
----

=== Web JDBC example

This example shows a basic REST server backed by a JDBC client. It is exactly the same as the REST client however its
data is persisted in a relational database using the asynchronous JDBC client.

The link:source/examples/web/jdbc/Server.ceylon[Ceylon jdbc example]

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products to get the list of products, or link:http://localhost:8080/products/0 for accessing
a product with id 0. In order to create new products use the POST method to link:http://localhost:8080/products

- Vert.x : Copy the HSQLDB driver in $VERTX_HOME/lib (the C3P0 connection pool needs it), then run it

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/jdbc
----

- Ceylon: Need the option --flat-classpath

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.jdbc
> ceylon run --flat-classpath examples.web.jdbc
----

=== Web static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:source/examples/web/templating[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

==== Web templating with Jade

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/jade -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/jade
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.jade
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.jade
----

==== Web templating with Handlebars

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/handlebars -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/handlebars
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.handlebars
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.handlebars
----

==== Web templating with MVEL

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/mvel -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/mvel
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.mvel
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.mvel
----

==== Web templating with Thymeleaf

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/thymeleaf -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/thymeleaf
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.thymeleaf
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.thymeleaf
----

=== Embeded Http

Simple http server example without verticles, Ceylon only.

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.embed.http
> ceylon run examples.embed.http
----

Commit message:

Update the ceylon documentation in examples to mention that ceylon is not included by default.
Instructions had been added to the documentation.

ceylon/README.adoc, after:

== Vert.x Ceylon examples

or Ceylon Vert.x examples - as you like.

=== Vert.x Stack

This current stack of modules is supported:

- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/core/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Core]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/sql/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x SQL]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/jdbc/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x JDBC]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/web/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Web]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/common/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth Common]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/jwt/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth JWT]
- https://vertx.ci.cloudbees.com/view/vert.x-3/job/vert.x3-lang-ceylon/ws/target/repo/io/vertx/ceylon/auth/shiro/1.0.0-SNAPSHOT/module-doc/api/index.html[Vert.x Auth Shiro]

For more info please refer to http://vertx.io/docs/

=== Usage from Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.simple.server
Note: Created module examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0

> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0
deployed
----

The module is deployed from the Ceylon run using Vert.x API

----
shared void run() {  
    vertx.vertx().deployVerticle("ceylon:examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0", void (String|Throwable ar) {
    if (is String ar) {
      print("deployed");
    } else {
      ar.printStackTrace();
    }
  });
}
----

=== Usage from Vert.x

Download Vert.x from http://vertx.io/download, add $VERTX_HOME/bin to your path. Then edit the `vertx-stack.json` and
 set the `included` boolean to `true` for the `vertx-lang-ceylon` dependency. Ceylon support is not included by
 default as it breaks the on-demand Java compilation. Once edited, launch:

----
vertx resolve --dir=lib --stack=./vertx-stack.json
----

It will download vertx-lang-ceylon and its dependencies.

Them run a Ceylon Verticle from Vert.x as follows:

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/server
----

Vert.x will compile first the Ceylon verticle.

When the verticle is already compiled (i.e there is a `modules/examples/core/http/simple/server/1.0.0/examples.core.http.simple.server-1.0.0.car` file), it can be ran too:

----
> vertx run ceylon:examples.core.http.simple.server/1.0.0
----

Some examples requires the _webroot_ folder, like the _web/staticsite_ example or the template examples, the `vertx.cwd` must be set to the parent of the _webroot`, for example:

=== Core Simple Http

A very simple HTTP server which always responds with the same response:

link:source/examples/core/http/simple/server/Server.ceylon[Ceylon simple HTTP server]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

And a simple HTTP client which makes a request to the server.

link:source/examples/core/http/simple/client/Client.ceylon[Ceylon simple HTTP client]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/server &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simple/client
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.server
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.client
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.server &
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.client
----

=== Core Http simple form upload

This example demonstrates how you can handle file uploads from an HTML form submission.

link:source/examples/core/http/simpleformupload/SimpleFormUploadServer.ceylon[Ceylon simple form file upload server example]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

NOTE: In practice you would probably also use Vert.x-Web for this rather than writing a server at this low level. Vert.x-Web
provides built in support for HTML forms and file uploads, and avoids some of the security issues due to maliciously
crafted URI paths.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/simpleformupload
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.simpleformupload
> ceylon run examples.core.http.simple.simpleformupload
----

=== Core Websockets

This example shows a Vert.x HTTP server which handles websockets connections. This example simply echoes back to the client
whatever it receives on the websocket.

There's also a client which connects to the server, sends some data and logs out what it receives.

link:source/examples/core/http/websockets/server/Server.ceylon[Ceylon WebSockets server example]
link:source/examples/core/http/websockets/client/Client.ceylon[Ceylon WebSockets client example]

You can run the server then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

NOTE: in practice you would probably use Vert.x-Web to build a web application that uses WebSockets

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/websockets/server &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/http/websockets/client
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.websockets.server
> ceylon compile examples.core.http.websockets.client
> ceylon run examples.core.http.websockets.server &
> ceylon run examples.core.http.websockets.client
----

=== Core exec blocking

This example demonstrates how you can include blocking code in with your non blocking code in a way that doesn't
block an event loop:

link:source/examples/core/execblocking/ExecBlocking.ceylon[Ceylon execute blocking code example]

Run the example then open a browser and point it at link:http://localhost:8080[]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/execblocking
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.core.execblocking
> ceylon run examples.core.http.execblocking
----

=== Core event bus pub/sub

This example demonstrates publish / subscribe messaging between a receivers and a sender. With pub/sub messaging
you can have multiple subscribers who all receive messages from publishers.

A receiver listens on an address on the event bus for incoming messages. When it receives a message it logs it.

The sender sends a message to that address every second, when it receives a reply it logs it.

link:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/receiver/Receiver.ceylon[Ceylon event bus pubsub receiver]
link:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/sender/Sender.ceylon[Ceylon event bus pubsub sender]

At the command line you should run Sender and Receiver in different consoles using the `-cluster` flag:

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/receiver -cluster &
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/core/eventbus/pubsub/sender -cluster
----

The `-cluster` flag allows different Vert.x instances on the network to cluster the event bus together into a single
event bus.

=== Web Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:source/examples/web/helloworld/Server.ceylon[Ceylon Hello world example]

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/helloworld
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.helloworld
> ceylon run examples.web.helloworld
----

=== Web Rest

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/rest
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.rest
> ceylon run examples.web.rest
----

=== Web Simple REST Micro-service

Vert.x-Web is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:source/examples/web/rest/SimpleREST.ceylon[Ceylon REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/rest
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.rest
> ceylon run examples.web.rest
----

=== Web Static web server example

This example shows a very simple web server which serves static files from disk.

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/staticsite -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/staticsite
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.staticsite
> ceylon run examples.web.staticsite
----

=== Web Form

This example shows a basic HTML form web-site and a backend end point that just returns an customizable hello world
message.

The link:source/examples/web/form/Server.ceylon[Ceylon form example]

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

- Vert.x

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/form
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.form
> ceylon run examples.web.form
----

=== Web JDBC example

This example shows a basic REST server backed by a JDBC client. It is exactly the same as the REST client however its
data is persisted in a relational database using the asynchronous JDBC client.

The link:source/examples/web/jdbc/Server.ceylon[Ceylon jdbc example]

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products to get the list of products, or link:http://localhost:8080/products/0 for accessing
a product with id 0. In order to create new products use the POST method to link:http://localhost:8080/products

- Vert.x : Copy the HSQLDB driver in $VERTX_HOME/lib (the C3P0 connection pool needs it), then run it

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/jdbc
----

- Ceylon: Need the option --flat-classpath

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.jdbc
> ceylon run --flat-classpath examples.web.jdbc
----

=== Web static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:source/examples/web/templating[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

==== Web templating with Jade

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/jade -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/jade
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.jade
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.jade
----

==== Web templating with Handlebars

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/handlebars -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/handlebars
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.handlebars
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.handlebars
----

==== Web templating with MVEL

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/mvel -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/mvel
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.mvel
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.mvel
----

==== Web templating with Thymeleaf

----
> vertx run ceylon:source/examples/web/templating/thymeleaf -Dvertx.cwd=source/examples/web/templating/thymeleaf
----

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.web.templating.thymeleaf
> ceylon run --flat-classpath  examples.web.templating.thymeleaf
----

=== Embeded Http

Simple http server example without verticles, Ceylon only.

- Ceylon

----
> ceylon compile examples.embed.http
> ceylon run examples.embed.http
----
