apex-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x Apex examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x Apex in action.

Apex is a tool-kit for writing web applications with Vert.x. Please consult the Apex manual for detailed
documentation on Apex.

== Logging

When running in an IDE you can edit `src/main/resources/vertx-default-jul-logging.properties` to configure logging.
Trace logging is enabled for Apex classes so you can easily trace requests as they are routed through different
handlers.

== Dependencies required

To use Apex in your own Maven or Gradle project you will need following dependencies

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-core
----

and

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-apex
----

If you're using auth in your Apex application you will also need the dependency:

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-auth
----

If you're using a template engine you will also need to add the engine dependency explicitly, depending on the engine
you are using.

== Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/helloworld/Server.java[Java Hello world example]

== Simple REST Micro-service

Apex is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/rest/SimpleREST.java[Java REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

== Static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/templating/[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

== Sessions example

This example shows how to use sessions with Apex. Sessions are available between requests and last the length of the
browser session.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/sessions/[Java sessions example]

The example increments a counter in the session every time a request hits the server.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 then refresh the page a few times - you should see the hit count increase.

NOTE: Depending on your browser you may see it increase by two each time you refresh! Why is that? Some browsers will
actually send two HTTP requests every time you refresh - one to request the favicon for the site and one to request the
actual page.

== Real-time - client side event bus

This example demonstrates a full duplex connection between the browser and the server side.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/[Java real-time example]

The connection remains open so you can communicate easily between server and browser or server and browser by just sending
messages over the event bus, like you would on the server side.

It uses the SockJS event bus bridge to effectively extend the Vert.x event bus to the client side so you can
interact with server side event bus services from client side JavaScript. SocksJS gives a WebSocket-like API in client side
JavaScript even if the browser or network doesn't support WebSockets.

This is ideal for so-called _real-time_ web applications where you want quick, responsive communication between server
and client and you're probably rendering the user interface on the client side.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080

This serves the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/webroot/index.html[index page] which contains
some JavaScript which opens an event bus connection to the server.

When the connection is open, a handler is registered on the event bus against the address `news-feed`. When data
arrives in the handler the script just uses some simple JQuery to write the message to the page.

On the server side, in the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/Server.java[server] we set a periodic
timer that fires every second and sends a message to the `news-feed` address.

When you get the index page in your browser you should see it update every second as it receives a message.

== Auth example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/auth/[Java auth example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The example uses a simple auth service which gets user/password/role information from a properties file
`src/main/resources/vertx-users.properties`.

The type of login used here is redirect login. If a request is made to a private resource and the session isn't already
logged in a redirect will be sent to the browser causing it to load the login page. When the login form is submitted it
is handled by the form login handler which then redirects the browser back to the originally requested resource if login
was successful.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links

Commit message:

Added description of chat example to README.adoc
Signed-off-by: Deven Phillips <deven.phillips@gmail.com>

apex-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x Apex examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating Vert.x Apex in action.

Apex is a tool-kit for writing web applications with Vert.x. Please consult the Apex manual for detailed
documentation on Apex.

== Logging

When running in an IDE you can edit `src/main/resources/vertx-default-jul-logging.properties` to configure logging.
Trace logging is enabled for Apex classes so you can easily trace requests as they are routed through different
handlers.

== Dependencies required

To use Apex in your own Maven or Gradle project you will need following dependencies

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-core
----

and

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-apex
----

If you're using auth in your Apex application you will also need the dependency:

----
Group ID: io.vertx
Artifact ID: vertx-auth
----

If you're using a template engine you will also need to add the engine dependency explicitly, depending on the engine
you are using.

== Hello World

The traditional hello world example. This one creates a server which just responds with "Hello World! to each request.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/helloworld/Server.java[Java Hello world example]

== Simple REST Micro-service

Apex is a great fit for HTTP/REST microservices.

Here's a simple micro-service example which implements an API for a product catalogue.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/rest/SimpleREST.java[Java REST Microservice example]

The API allows you to list all products, retrieve details for a particular product and to add a new product.

Product information is provided in JSON.

List all products:: GET /products
Get a product:: GET /products/<product_id>
Add a product:: PUT /products/<product_id>

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080/products[list products] to start playing with the API.

== Static site with templating

This example shows a simple web-site containing some static pages and also a page dynamically generated using templates.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/templating/[templating example]

The dynamic page outputs some information (path and headers) of the request. It uses the MVEL template engine but you
could use any of the other template engines if you prefer.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click on the links

== Sessions example

This example shows how to use sessions with Apex. Sessions are available between requests and last the length of the
browser session.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/sessions/[Java sessions example]

The example increments a counter in the session every time a request hits the server.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 then refresh the page a few times - you should see the hit count increase.

NOTE: Depending on your browser you may see it increase by two each time you refresh! Why is that? Some browsers will
actually send two HTTP requests every time you refresh - one to request the favicon for the site and one to request the
actual page.

== Real-time - client side event bus

This example demonstrates a full duplex connection between the browser and the server side.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/[Java real-time example]

The connection remains open so you can communicate easily between server and browser or server and browser by just sending
messages over the event bus, like you would on the server side.

It uses the SockJS event bus bridge to effectively extend the Vert.x event bus to the client side so you can
interact with server side event bus services from client side JavaScript. SocksJS gives a WebSocket-like API in client side
JavaScript even if the browser or network doesn't support WebSockets.

This is ideal for so-called _real-time_ web applications where you want quick, responsive communication between server
and client and you're probably rendering the user interface on the client side.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080

This serves the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/webroot/index.html[index page] which contains
some JavaScript which opens an event bus connection to the server.

When the connection is open, a handler is registered on the event bus against the address `news-feed`. When data
arrives in the handler the script just uses some simple JQuery to write the message to the page.

On the server side, in the link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/Server.java[server] we set a periodic
timer that fires every second and sends a message to the `news-feed` address.

When you get the index page in your browser you should see it update every second as it receives a message.

== Real-time - chat service

This example demonstrates 2-way communication between the client and the server using the event bus bridge
and web sockets. 

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/ChatVerticle.java[Java real-time chat example]

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/realtime/webroot/chat.html[chat.html] file 
bootstraps the vertxbus.js bridge from the client and uses jQuery to handle manipulating
the DOM and registering event handlers.

When you load the index page in a browser, you should see a div for chat messages and 
an input field where you can enter your own messages. Typing in the input field and 
pressing ENTER will cause the input to be sent via the event bus to the server. The server
will accept the message, prepend it with a timestamp and publish back to all registered 
listeners (e.g. All connected clients). Take note of the addInboundPermitted and addOutboundPermitted
settings on the BridgeOptions object to be sure that you authorize the correct messages
to traverse the event bus bridge in the appropriate direction.

== Auth example

This example shows a basic static web-site that contains both public pages and pages that are only accessible to
a logged in user.

The link:src/main/java/io/vertx/example/apex/auth/[Java auth example]

Requests to paths starting with `/private/` will require login.

The example uses a simple auth service which gets user/password/role information from a properties file
`src/main/resources/vertx-users.properties`.

The type of login used here is redirect login. If a request is made to a private resource and the session isn't already
logged in a redirect will be sent to the browser causing it to load the login page. When the login form is submitted it
is handled by the form login handler which then redirects the browser back to the originally requested resource if login
was successful.

Run the server either in your IDE or on the command line, then open your browser and hit
link:http://localhost:8080 and click around the links
