maven-verticles/maven-verticle-groovy/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x Simple Maven Verticle for Groovy project

This project is very similar to the maven-verticle project but instead of using a Java verticle is uses a Groovy
verticle.

You can run it directly in your IDE by creating a run configuration that uses the main class `io.vertx.core.Launcher`
and passes in the arguments `run src/main/groovy/MyGroovyVerticle`.

The pom.xml uses the Maven shade plugin to assemble the application and all it's dependencies into a single "fat" jar.

To build a "fat jar"

    mvn package

To run the fat jar:

    java -jar target/maven-verticle-groovy-3.3.3-fat.jar

(You can take that jar and run it anywhere there is a Java 8+ JDK. It contains all the dependencies it needs so you
don't need to install Vert.x on the target machine).

Now point your browser at http://localhost:8080

You can also launch the application from Maven directly:

* to run it using the classes form target/classes: `mvn compile exec:java@run`
* to run the fat jar: `mvn package exec:exec@run-app`

Commit message:

Correctly create groovy extension modules for fatjars for maven-verticle-groovy and gradle-verticle-groovy

maven-verticles/maven-verticle-groovy/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x Simple Maven Verticle for Groovy project

This project is very similar to the maven-verticle project but instead of using a Java verticle is uses a Groovy
verticle.

To create a correct fatjar for Groovy, the `GroovyResourceTransformer` (available since the 3.0.0 version of the plugin)
must be used:

----
<transformer implementation="org.apache.maven.plugins.shade.resource.GroovyResourceTransformer">
</transformer>
----

You can run it directly in your IDE by creating a run configuration that uses the main class `io.vertx.core.Launcher`
and passes in the arguments `run src/main/groovy/MyGroovyVerticle`.

The pom.xml uses the Maven shade plugin to assemble the application and all it's dependencies into a single "fat" jar.

To build a "fat jar"

    mvn package

To run the fat jar:

    java -jar target/maven-verticle-groovy-3.3.3-fat.jar

(You can take that jar and run it anywhere there is a Java 8+ JDK. It contains all the dependencies it needs so you
don't need to install Vert.x on the target machine).

Now point your browser at http://localhost:8080

You can also launch the application from Maven directly:

* to run it using the classes form target/classes: `mvn compile exec:java@run`
* to run the fat jar: `mvn package exec:exec@run-app`
