docker-examples/README.adoc, before:

= Vert.x Docker Examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating how to run Vert.x applications in Docker container. To run these examples you need https://www.docker.com/[Docker] installed on your computer. More details about these examples are in the http://vert-x3.github.io/docs/vertx-docker/[Vert.x Docker Manual].

== vertx-docker-java

This example deploys a Java verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-java

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-java .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-java
----

== vertx-docker-javascript

This example deploys a JavaScript verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-javascript

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-javascript .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-javascript
----

== vertx-docker-groovy

This example deploys a Groovy verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-groovy

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-groovy .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-groovy
----

== vertx-docker-ruby

This example deploys a Ruby verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-ruby

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-ruby .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-ruby
----

== vertx-docker-example

This example builds and deploys a Java verticle inside Docker using Apache Maven

The link:vertx-docker-example

To build and run it:
----
mvn clean package docker:build
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 vertx/vertx3-example
----

== vertx-docker-example-fabric8

This example builds and deploys a Java verticle inside Docker and generate the medatadata required by Fabric8.

The link:vertx-docker-example-fabric8

To build and run it:
----
mvn clean package docker:build
# Set $DOCKER_REGISTRY to poin on the Docker Registry provided by Fabric8
docker push $DOCKER_REGISTRY/vertx/vertx3-example-fabric8
mvn io.fabric8:fabric8-maven-plugin:2.1.4:apply
----

== vertx-docker-java-fatjar

This example deploys a Java verticle inside Docker. The verticle is packaged as a _fat jar_.

The link:vertx-docker-java-fatjar

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-java-fat .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-java-fat
----

Commit message:

Add ruby-gemfile docker example

docker-examples/README.adoc, after:

= Vert.x Docker Examples

Here you will find examples demonstrating how to run Vert.x applications in Docker container. To run these examples you need https://www.docker.com/[Docker] installed on your computer. More details about these examples are in the http://vert-x3.github.io/docs/vertx-docker/[Vert.x Docker Manual].

== vertx-docker-java

This example deploys a Java verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-java

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-java .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-java
----

== vertx-docker-javascript

This example deploys a JavaScript verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-javascript

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-javascript .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-javascript
----

== vertx-docker-groovy

This example deploys a Groovy verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-groovy

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-groovy .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-groovy
----

== vertx-docker-ruby

This example deploys a Ruby verticle inside Docker.

The link:vertx-docker-ruby

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-ruby .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-ruby
----

== vertx-docker-ruby-gemfile

This example downloads Ruby http://bundler.io/gemfile.html[Gemfile] dependencies from https://rubygems.org[RubyGems] using the http://bundler.io[Bundler] gem and then deploys a Ruby verticle inside Docker.
The deployed verticle is configured to use a GEM_PATH pointed to where the bundler downloaded the dependencies in the Gemfile.

Initial Startup time of jRuby on slower machines can cause the event loop to be blocked and throw thread blocking warnings. 

The verticle will print three dates using the working_hours ruby dependency, such as:
----
2018-03-03 13:58:46 -0500
2018-03-02 15:58:46 -0500
2018-03-02 14:13:46 -0500
----

The link:vertx-docker-ruby-gemfile

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-ruby-gemfile .
docker run -t -i sample/vertx-ruby-gemfile
----

== vertx-docker-example

This example builds and deploys a Java verticle inside Docker using Apache Maven

The link:vertx-docker-example

To build and run it:
----
mvn clean package docker:build
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 vertx/vertx3-example
----

== vertx-docker-example-fabric8

This example builds and deploys a Java verticle inside Docker and generate the medatadata required by Fabric8.

The link:vertx-docker-example-fabric8

To build and run it:
----
mvn clean package docker:build
# Set $DOCKER_REGISTRY to poin on the Docker Registry provided by Fabric8
docker push $DOCKER_REGISTRY/vertx/vertx3-example-fabric8
mvn io.fabric8:fabric8-maven-plugin:2.1.4:apply
----

== vertx-docker-java-fatjar

This example deploys a Java verticle inside Docker. The verticle is packaged as a _fat jar_.

The link:vertx-docker-java-fatjar

To build and run it:
----
docker build -t sample/vertx-java-fat .
docker run -t -i -p 8080:8080 sample/vertx-java-fat
----
